---
layout: post
title: "IELTS Writing Sample #187"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/ielts_writing_samples_task_2/1012/)

# IELTS Writing Sample #187
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task.

Write about the following topic:

> Some people think that developed countries have a higher responsibility to combat climate change than developing countries. Others believe that all countries should have the same responsibilities towards protecting the environment.

Discuss both these views and give your own opinion.

Write at least 250 words.

Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.

----
# Exam Tip
While grammar is one leg, vocabulary is the second leg for your writing to stand on. But note that simple, correct English is better than experimenting with sophisticated vocabulary and getting it wrong! You may try out unfamiliar vocabulary if you have a helpful teacher, but not during a test! There are certain words and phrases that you can make a special point of learning carefully because they are likely to be used in most, if not all essays. Make sure that you have enough vocabulary for each of the common categories:

Evaluation (e.g. benefit, unsatisfactory)
Consequence, cause, reason (e.g. outcome, produce, explanation)
modifiers (e.g. significant, majority)
connectors (under these circumstances, moreover)
grouping nouns (aspect, factor, feature)

The best way to learn these is to look for examples in your reading and then copy them into your own personal vocabulary book under the appropriate headings. Be careful to copy whole phrases, not just single words, so that you learn the correct use of the expressions.

----
# Sample answer
With environmental concerns growing continually in the last few decades, the question of what each country can do to protect the environment has become more and more prominent. Some people believe that all countries around the world are equally responsible when it comes to combating climate change. Others, however, think that developed countries have a greater responsibility than developing countries.

It is indubitable that climate change is a universal, global problem; therefore, any solution to it will need to be on a global scale, too. Furthermore, developing countries are more likely to suffer as a result of climate change, so they should be just as motivated as developed countries to help the environment.

On the other hand, developed countries are clearly wore capable of taking the lead in combating climate change and improving their carbon footprint, as they have fewer pressing concerns than developing countries. Not only that, but they are also going to have a more marked effect if they reduce their emissions, since developed nations have always been far ahead in terms of pollution, and are in fact mostly to blame for it. Finally, developed countries have the responsibility to set the example for others, introducing changes to encourage the rest to do the same.

Therefore, I firmly believe that while every country should be accountable for their emissions and contribute to combating climate change, developed countries have a slightly bigger responsibility to take action than developing countries, as they have both the means and the reasons to do so, as well as the ability to create a formidable wave of change in attitudes towards the environment around the world.

(271 words)

----
### My essay
