---
layout: post
title: "General Writing Sample Task 1 #65"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/general_writing_samples_task_1/792/)

# General Writing Sample Task 1 #65
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.

> You have seen an advertisement in an English newspaper for a job working in the City Museum shop during the holidays. You decide to apply for the job.
Write a letter to the director of the Museum. In your letter,
> - introduce yourself
> - explain what experience and special skills you have
> - explain why you are interested in the job

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

----
# IELTS Tip
Yours sincerely and Yours faithfully can both be used to close formal and semi-formal letters. Yours faithfully is used when you don't know the name of the person you are writing to.

Related Topic: Writing a letter

----
# Model answer
Dear Sir/Madam,

I’m writing to apply for the holiday job which you advertised recently in the newspaper. I am a twenty-one-year-old student and I speak English quite well. At present I am in my second year studying History at Lincoln College and I am very keen to have a holiday job this summer. I am extremely good at adding up, so I think I would be an asset to your shop.

My term finishes on 5th July and I am free until 20th September. Last year I worked in a restaurant serving tourists from all over the world and I enjoyed it very much. I would like to have the opportunity to meet people and practise my English again.

I enjoy going to museums and am particularly keen on history. Last year I went to an exhibition of Ancient Greek objects which was held in London. I have often been in your museum and am familiar with the items you have. I do hope you will be interested in my application.

I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

Yours faithfully,

Dimitris Boudramis

(186 words)
