---
layout: post
title: "General Writing Sample Task 1 #67"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/general_writing_samples_task_1/937/)

# General Writing Sample Task 1 #67
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.

> You are going to another country to study. You would like to do a part-time job while you are studying, so you want to ask a friend who lives there for some help.
> Write a letter to your friend. In your letter,
> - give details of your study plans
> - explain why you want to get a part-time job
> - suggest how your friend could help you find a job

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

----
# IELTS Tip
General Training Writing Task 1 should be written in the style appropriate to the task: if it is a letter to a friend, it should be written in a friendly, informal style; if it is a letter to a company or institution, it should be written in a formal style.

----
# Model answer
Dear Sara,

My departure date for Canada is drawing near, and I am busy with preparations. I have enrolled at an institution called ‘IDT English’ in Ottawa, for a four-month intermediate course, full-time. It is quite expensive but I am hopeful of improving my pronunciation, especially.

To assist in covering the costs of my study, I aim to find a part-time job. Not only are the college fees rather high, but also I know that rental accommodation in the capital city will not be cheap, to say nothing of food and heating expenses! So I would very much like to arrange some temporary employment before I arrive.

I was wondering if you could ask around among your friends and colleagues to see if anyone wants a house-cleaner, gardener, or nanny for their children. I know you have a wide social network in Ottawa which you could canvas for me, if you wouldn't mind. I'd be so grateful.

I look forward to seeing you soon.

Best wishes,

Helen

(167 words)
