---
layout: post
title: "IELTS Writing Sample #189"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/ielts_writing_samples_task_2/1015/)

# IELTS Writing Sample #189
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task.

Write about the following topic:

> In the past, shopping was a routine domestic task. Many people nowadays regard it as a hobby.

> To what extent do you think this is a positive trend?

Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.

Write at least 250 words.

----
# Writing the Essay - Useful Language
Giving your opinions / expressing attitude

- In my view/opinion, …
- From my point of view, (Personally.) I tend to think/believe/feel that …
- I would argue that / I tend to think that …
- I am not sure I agree with/that …
- I tend not to believe that As far as I'm concerned, Arguably / As a matter of fact / Interestingly / Clearly / To a certain extent, …

Introducing arguments

- The main argument in favour of / against …
- It is (certainly) true that …
- It is (generally) believed/felt that …
- The general view is / has been that …
- Experts/Professionals would argue/say that …

Presenting reasons/examples

- One of the main reasons why …
- The main reason why …
- There are a number of reasons why/for …
- For this reason, …

Presenting a counter argument

- Having said that / made this point / these points, …
- Despite / In spite of this, …

Expressing purpose

- with the aim of / in order to / so as to

Emphasising

- What we/people/governments need to / should do is …
- All that X needs to / should do is …
- It is X that …

Drawing a conclusion

- Overall, … / All in all, …
- Ultimately, … / In the end, …

----
# Sample answer
Going shopping used to be a chore, but recently it has become a leisure activity or a pleasant outing. To my mind, it is debatable whether this can be regarded as a wholly positive development.

For earlier generations, buying food or consumer products involved visiting several shops, each with the same limited range on offer. Customers had less money and credit was not widely available. By contrast, shoppers nowadays can find almost anything in the supermarket or shopping mall. The comfortable environment, the variety of goods and attractions such as cafés and cinemas make spending money enjoyable.

Nowadays, with many parents working full-time, families have little time together. In my experience, it is normal to see families in the local shopping mall at weekends. Undoubtedly, one of the benefits of this is that they are together as a family. Nevertheless, this is not ideal, especially if it leaves no time for other activities, such as sport.

Another negative result of this change in attitudes is the effect it has on young people all over the world, who spend time in shopping malls. The reasons for this are the influence of advertising and the availability of credit cards. On the one hand, they are with friends in a safe environment, but on the other, it can tempt them to buy things they do not really need and may cause them to get into debt. Moreover, it would be better for their health if they met friends to go swimming.

In conclusion I would like to suggest that although shopping now is less tedious, this is not necessarily a positive trend. It may be good for the retailers, but not for consumers if it replaces other, healthier activities.

(286 words)

----
### My essay
