---
layout: post
title: "IELTS Writing Sample #184"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/ielts_writing_samples_task_2/1000/)

# IELTS Writing Sample #184
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task.

Write about the following topic:

> In many countries, very few young people read newspapers or follow the news on TV. What do you think are the causes of this?

> What solutions can you suggest?

Give reasons for your answer and include any relevant examples from your own knowledge or experience.

Write at least 250 words.

----
# Exam Tip
• Some IELTS writing tasks contain more than one question. Make sure that your answer fully covers all parts of the task.
• You might be asked to write about a problem and consider possible causes and solutions.
• Make sure that any causes you suggest are relevant. Give reasons and examples.
• Make sure that any solutions you suggest deal with the causes of the problem.
• Describe how your solutions might be put into practice, giving reasons and examples.

----
# Sample answer
There is increasing concern in many countries that newspapers are not being read and the news on television is not being watched by many young people. As a result, young people in these countries are not up-to-date with or even concerned about local, national and international events.

The major causes of this problem are that most newspapers and news programmes are designed for an adult audience and are not presented in a format that teenagers find attractive. Few young people read newspapers because the language is too difficult and the style and content is usually quite serious. A lack of interest in the news is also due to the fact that young people are fascinated by new technology, such as computers and the Internet. As a result of this there is a lower interest in traditional news formats, which are considered unappealing and unfashionable.

There are some strategies that can be used to encourage young people to keep abreast of the news. The first is to have news agencies present the news in formats that are appealing for the young. The easiest way to do this would be to present news on internet sites that are designed for a younger audience. Another way to confront the problem is to have schools involved in the publication of regular school newspapers. Recent local, national and international news events could be included, although schools should also encourage pupils to be involved in the writing of articles and submissions. This newspaper could then be distributed to all the pupils, which means a greater number of young people would regularly read news stories.

The low number of young people reading newspapers and following the news on television can be increased by presenting the news in formats that are appealing to them. The key is to utilise websites and also have schools publish their own newspapers, which students are involved in.

(317 words)
