---
layout: post
title: "General Writing Sample Task 1 #68"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/general_writing_samples_task_1/967/)

# General Writing Sample Task 1 #68
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.

> You play a team sport with some friends. Last week a member of the team had an accident and wasn't able to play with you at the weekend. You decide to write to him in hospital, telling him about the match.
> Write a letter to your friend. In your letter,
> - tell him which team won
> - describe the conditions on the day
> - say how you felt about the match

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

----
# IELTS Tip
You do not have time to write a detailed plan for your letter so think about drafting (writing in rough) the opening line of each of the sections:

1) Opening
2) Main paragraphs
3) Closing

with notes on one or two main points. This will give your writing a sense of direction.

----
# Examiner’s comments
This is a good answer because it covers all the points in the question, though not necessarily in the same order, and introduces some original ideas. It is well paragraphed and both the introduction and the closing paragraph are appropriate to the situation. The use of adjectives to describe how the writer felt is excellent and there is a good range of structures used. The tone and overall communicative quality of the letter are good.

----
# Sample Band 9 answer
Dear Frank,

I was so sorry to hear about your accident! I hope you're feeling a lot better today and that it's not too boring in hospital.
(Expresses sympathy and asks about the reader's health.)

The match on Saturday was disappointing. The score was 2 all, probably because you weren't there to score that extra goal! The awful thing was that we were winning until 10 minutes before the end, when suddenly they scored another goal. I was so shocked when I saw the ball hit the back of the net.
(Tells him the score and briefly describes how you felt about the match.)

I think the weather was to blame. It was a really wet day and the pitch was very muddy. By the end of the game you could hardly see the grass and we were sliding around in the mud. Everyone was exhausted.
(Mentions the weather and conditions.)

Let us know when you're going home and we'll arrange for someone to bring you to watch the next game. The rest of the team send their regards and we all wish you a speedy recovery.
(Finishes with good wishes.)

Best wishes,
Charlie

(161 words)
