---
layout: post
title: "General Writing Sample Task 1 #70"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/general_writing_samples_task_1/1009/)

# General Writing Sample Task 1 #70
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.

> A restaurant has placed an advertisement for waiters and waitresses in your local newspaper.
> Write a letter to the restaurant, applying for the job. In your letter:
> - explain what you are currently doing
> - describe your suitability for this area of work
> - say when you can attend an interview

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

----
# IELTS Tip
Traditionally, Dear Sir or Madam has been considered the correct greeting for a formal business letter, although nowadays the custom is changing. If the IELTS task provides you with this or any other specific greeting, you must use it. Outside of the testing situation, however, you could use another type of greeting such as Dear Recruiter, Dear Editor, Dear Manager.

----
# Sample Band 9 answer
Dear Sir or Madam,

I am writing in reference to the advertisement you placed in the Vancouver Observer for waiters and waitresses.

I am 19 years old and I am a part-time student at college. I have held several positions in catering outlets during my studies and, as the restaurant where I am currently employed is due to close, I am keen to find another position as soon as possible.

I have completed and passed the advanced certificate in food hygiene and am therefore familiar with the requirements of working in the catering industry. In my current job, in addition to working as a waiter, I am also responsible for counting up takings at the end of the day.

I am very reliable and trustworthy, have a friendly, outgoing personality and enjoy dealing with the public. I would be very grateful if I could be considered for the position. My employer is happy to supply a reference and I am available for interview at any time except Monday and Wednesday afternoons when I attend college.

Please do not hesitate to contact me should you have any questions.

I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours faithfully,

John Lee

(198 words)
