---
layout: post
title: "General Writing Sample Task 1 #66"
date: 2019-07-01
---

[LINK](https://www.ielts-exam.net/general_writing_samples_task_1/891/)

# General Writing Sample Task 1 #66
You should spend about 20 minutes on this task.

> You are studying a short course in another country. Your accommodation was arranged by the course provider. There is a major problem with the accommodation.
> Write a letter to the course provider. In your letter,
> - say what the problem is
> - describe the accommodation you thought you were getting
> - ask the provider to solve the problem

Write at least 150 words.

You do NOT need to write any addresses.

----
# IELTS Tip
A common problem in GT Task 1 is that candidates use a strange mix of formal and informal language. In formal letters, they may include inappropriate informalities; in informal letters they may suddenly be too formal, usually including a memorised chunk. This mix confuses the reader and affects the candidate’s score in Task Fulfilment.

Related Topic: Writing a letter

----
# Model answer
Dear Mr Watterson,

My name is Andrew Fish, and I am taking an eight-week intensive English course at Oxford House College. My company is paying for my tuition, and I am using my summer vacation to study. It is expected I will pass an English Proficiency Test as a result, and be transferred abroad. Therefore, it is rather important to me that I am able to study in the best environment.

I am staying in Phoenix Hostel on campus. While my room is pleasant and the facilities are very good, the hostel is extremely noisy. When I organised my accommodation, I was assured I would be staying only with post-graduate or intensive-course students. However, most of the people in this hostel are doing summer-school courses due to academic failure, and they are all under 22. It seems to me they are enjoying one long party: certainly no one observes light out or turns down music despite being asked to.

I wonder if I may be moved to a hostel which is more conducive to serious study, or I may use the remainder of my accommodation fee to go towards payment for a hotel.
I look forward to hearing from you.

Yours sincerely,
Andrew Fish

(204 words)
